Hello, my name is Andreia and I'd like to share a little of this project I started in 2019 which aims to collect, process and categorize clays caught in loco in lusitanian lands (for now).
This work's goal is to explore the relationships between prime matter, nature and my imaginarium, thus creating a dialogue between these elements and the general public. I also wish to know and make known the diversity of our land's soil, several methods of working with it and, at the same time, to create an exercise of landscape observation.
I quickly realized that there's a lage variety of different kinds of clays in the area where I live in. This research introduced me several isolated locals like deactivated stone quarries, which are very common in this area of the country. In addition to providing access to diversity, the ecological footprint is also very small, as the entire project is artesanal.
I decided to create a page exclusively dedicated to this project due to it's highly experimental and specific nature. I want to use this format as a means to document my journey and results and enrich my own knowledge, with your help. Any feedback or constuctive criticism is welcome.
I've been organizing some workshops about this theme, where you can gather and process your own clay, taking advantage of its unique characteristics. For more information you can DM me or access the registration form in the workshop highlight.

Today I bring you a smal lvideo of the gathering process. Red clay is the most prominent in the majority of the country, and, dare I say,  the most kwown/used in Alentejo. There are many clay tonalities, I've managed to gather over 7 different colors and plasticities in just one place, like white, black, purple, dark red, gray and yellow. These colors, textures and plasticities come from the oxides present in that place and from the way these clays are influenced by erosion

Hey there!
What do you think of these wonderful colors? These bowls were all gathered in loco and manually proceseed in 2019.
I've kept them very close and well and now the time to test them has come.
The idea of the blow pleases me for this project to reach a deeper understanding of the plasticity of the paste. I've made two bowls per paste, one which will be baked at 1150 (talvez dar temperatura em Farenheit) and the other at 1250. Glazed with glossy TR and cracle TR. From my experience, the colors will completly change, i.e yellow usually bakes into red (yellow iron oxide) and purple into brown (manganese oxide)
Later on I'll share with you the final results. Wish me luck!

Collective exhibition Cyclic Matter within the score of Composival, in Peniche
Composival was born from the desire to create an event that would link local commerce, like arts, crafts, ecology and soil health/preservation. It consists of several activities, like workshops, a collective performance exhibition, market and cinema.
It was the first the the project Pelos Solos de Portugal was exposed. For this exhibit it was created from clays gathered in 2019 in the area of Marinha Grande. These clays can withstand high temperatures and show very interesting results when glazed with cracle TR.
In order to demonstrate the versaility of the clay, I proposed to show them in several differente "states" through an instalation composed of several elements:
Solid state (ceramic body, baked)
Dust state (pigments)
Liquid state (painting on paper)
Raw state (as found, without intervention)
This project will be presented mainly in the format of an archive or documentation, but i hope to eventually create unique pieces from these pastes, in the scope of different projects. For more information: IG link
I want to once again thank Cyclic Matter and Inesartista for the opportunity to be part of thie first edition of this very special festival. I wish you the best

Hey
I want to share with you a project I started in 2019 in the scope of gathering and processing natural argiles. I recently made a IG acount exclusively dedicated to this project with the purpose of document my journy, my resources and create a place of dialog about this theme. This invitation extends to any person who's interested in ceramics and wishes to enrichen their knowledge about argile and it's properties.
I welcome any feedback and constructive criticism. If anyone who also has a project of this nature wishes to do so, please share it in the comments.


