#Pedro Barbeira - Letter of Motivation
pedro.barbeira95@gmail.com
Oporto, Portugal

Greetings, Pete. 

As mentioned, here's the formal letter of application for the Bachelor of
Magic at the Arcanorium College. 

Who am I?
As stated, my name is Pedro. I'm a Software Engineer student and part time
Software Developer. I'm an ex-college dropout who quit his Bachelor's degree
to study Jazz Drumming for four years, only to later get on with his studies
in the STEM field. I'm also (mostly) self-taught magician and mystic, who's
currently taking the first steps into the theoretical side of Alchemy. I'm
a Reiki practicioner, a cartomant, an Astrology hobbyist, a beginner
Runemaster and a Hatha Yoga practitioner. 
I've always found great pleasure in mixing and combining seemingly different 
concepts into a holistic view/perception of reality. One of my greatest
pleasures is drawing in concepts from one area and applying them in what
I'm currently working on. It's also one of my greatest prides, as far as
mental faculties go. Through this process, one can start figuring out
the underlying patterns that interconnect the different aspects of reality.
The more one can peer into the uniformity of everything, the more one can
perceive the degrees of differentiation that separate the object from
the Source - or God, or Tao, or One, or Primordial Chaos.

Why do I want to join Arcanorium College?
Taking my own steps into the Mysteries has always been the only way forward
regarding spiritual matters and Magick. While there were certain teachers
along the way, many times in the form of prominent figures in my life,
there was never a Master-Student relationship as far as these topics were
concerned. What I noticed was that certain insights came to me through
certain vehicles, either books, movies, music, practices, sudden insights
or people around me - both in close proximity or through random shouts
and fragmented sentenced picked up from the crowd. The path has always
been lonely and, at times, quite heavy. 
Finding Arcanorium College was a breath of fresh air. Being inherently
anti-systemic, I find it very hard to comply with authority. Most information
regarding structured organizations add up to glorified cults. Hierarchies
don't work well for me. With this in mind, and after the short interactions
I had with Pete through e-mail, I felt your faculty could provide much
needed guidance without the usual hassle of having to compromise with
someone else's idea of order and structure.
I also feel a deep need to share my findings and insights - both from
an egotistic perspective of wanting to share and attest my quality, but also
from a deeper, more meaning perspective of wanting my share my findings
so others can build on them eventually. The way the course works fills this
need perfectly - a need which often can't be fulfilled, considering
the matter at hand. Having an expert reading through the finding and
providing pointers is also a very interesting plus, which will certainly
ease up the path quite a bit.
On a more practical side, I've been meaning to create a Chaos Magick
course for quite some time. It's a paradigm that fits right into my
values and worldviews, and one that's barely known or talked about
in my country. To be precise, I've been meaning to create a course on
Magick with a Chaos Magick approach to it, as means to start spreading
the paradigm across practitioners around me. Empowering the people
is just what we need in the current times we live in, and nothing is
more empowering than being able to create your own system and spells.
At least from where I'm standing, that is.

Why should Arcanorium College accept me?
Having taken most steps into the Mysteries by my own foot, I couldn't
count on any guidelines or safeguards to direct my development. Having
taken most steps into the Mysteries by my own foot, I didn't have any
established system of belief or worldview to fall into - nor the dogmatic
thinking and limitations that usually arise from those. As such, the
main challenges were to build my own paradigm, to test that paradigm
into/against the world, and to adjust said paradigm accordingly. For
quite a few years it was hellish, then I started getting some wins in,
at the moment it's flowing quite nicely.
This experience provided quite a bit of insight into the nature of
developing one's own paradigm, and into the interconnectedness of every
system of belief - I prefer the term "language".
I'm also quite creative, at least so I believe, and have a special knack
for finding the weak links and incongruencies in a system. This usually
allows me to go past the railroad and peer into what's beneath it. I
have a passion to understand how things work and enjoy spending time
in the higher spheres of abstract thought. I'm also proactive in regards
to my development, both magickal and "ordinary" (if there's even such
a difference) and thorough in my researches.
At the very least, I'll be sure to raise a couple eyebrows and share some
provocative thoughts. Hopefully I'll be able to take a step further and
offer some fascinating insight through my research.

Why should Arcanorium College reject me?
To be honest, I can be quite unreliable - depending on the currents of
life, I may spend one or two months away from a subject, only to pick
it back up and submerge myself fully. Depending on the type of profile
you're looking for your students, this may be a big "turn down". I'm
also known amongst my professors, ever since a young age, to be quite
the annoying student - always questioning authority and trying to bite
a bit more than I can chew. Depending on what you appreciate, this can be
either a big plus or a big minus. 

My goals for this course:
* Deepen my understanding of Magick
* Having contact with some form of community with which I can share 
  findings and discuss ideas
* Creating accountability for the practice in the form of thorough
  reports
* Developing and honing my psychic skills
* Deepening the insight and understanding of my areas of interest
  in a self-determined way
* Learning advanced magickal skills like Invocation and creation of
  Servitors
* Take the first steps into building/compiling my personal body of Work

What you can expect:
* Well built and thought-out workings
* Thorough analysis on each subsequent report
* (Hopefully) thought-provoking perspectives
* Autonomy of research and learning
* Some crazy experiments that may or may not go boom

Hopefully this document has provided the needed information to properly
access my application. If there's anything else you require, please feel
free to ask me through e-mail. 

Thank you so much for your time and attention.

Best regards Pete,
- Pedro Barbeira
